(CNN)Simona Halep declared on the eve of the French Open that about "15 players" were the favorite but the way she has played at Roland Garros in the last week, the number has dwindled to one -- and it is the Romanian herself.
The 2014 finalist would have been the heavy favorite had she not sustained an ankle injury in the final of the Italian Open last month against Elina Svitolina -- a week after defending her crown at the Madrid Open. However, the third seed has brushed aside any fitness concerns by reaching the last eight without conceding a set.
READ: Halep ... and chocolate mousse
On Monday she crushed Carla Suarez Navarro -- the 21st-seeded Spaniard who had beaten Halep in their four previous clay duels -- 6-1 6-1 on a blustery day in Paris to set up a rematch with Svitolina, who rallied from 5-2 down in the third set to end the run of Croatian qualifier Petra Martic 4-6 6-3 7-5.
After Venus Williams and Svetlana Kuznetsova lost Sunday, the French Open -- which is missing Serena Williams, Maria Sharapova and Victoria Azarenka -- is guaranteed of producing a first-time grand slam winner.
Halep hopes it will be her.
Her great form, she said, can be attributed to a more positive attitude on court since early April.
"I work hard and I changed," Halep told reporters, Monday. "I changed pretty fast."
Why fast?
Halep revealed that her highly respected coach and television analyst Darren Cahill -- formerly in the corners of Andre Agassi and Lleyton Hewitt -- stopped traveling with her following a tough loss to Johanna Konta in the quarterfinals of the Miami Open in March.
"He was upset after Miami's match," Halep admitted.
Indeed Cahill wasn't pleased with Halep's downcast demeanor between the second and third sets in Miami.
During an on-court coaching visit, Halep called herself "bad" and "(ridiculously) bad" after she failed to serve out the match in the second set and blew a 5-4 lead in the second-set tiebreak.
The Australian replied: "You've been in this position many, many times before and most times you come out second best. So right now you have an opportunity to change things. It's up to you.
"You can decide what you want to do here. You can go down this path and that's fine. Or you can take a deep breath, put the towel over your head and try to get a little better in this situation.
"It's up to you and comes from within."
Following the defeat, Halep reflected and then beat Konta weeks later in the Fed Cup in Romania prior to making the semifinals in Stuttgart.
'I felt ashamed'
"He was home, I was home," Halep said. "He just told me that we will talk after Paris. And then he liked how I was in Fed Cup. And then in Stuttgart. So I think when I finished Stuttgart, he said he saw enough and he's ready to come back.
"I asked him if he wants to come back before Madrid. He said yes, because I improved a lot, and he saw that I really wanted to change that.
"So the desire that I had in that moment made him come back and just be ready for me.
"So I'm okay. Now I'm happy that I can be positive on court, and I will never be negative like I was in Miami, because I didn't like when I saw the video, I felt ashamed about what I did. So hopefully it is not going to happen again."
Halep also wants to avoid a repeat of the result in the Rome finale, when Svitolina -- seeded fifth in Paris -- won the biggest title of her career.
READ: Jabeur makes history for Arab women
READ: Djokovic - "you're losing your mind"
The Ukrainian said she suffered a back injury -- which also arose in Rome -- before taking to the court against Martic.
But almost out of the tournament at 2-5 in the deciding set, she got into "Svitolina mode."
"I heard that after 2-5 I missed only four points, so probably this is Svitolina mode," said Svitolina, who like Halep is renown for her court coverage. "I just try to find myself into this zone where I don't do much unforced errors and still play aggressive."
Karolina Pliskova and Caroline Garcia square off in the other bottom-half quarterfinal after advancing in contrasting fashion. Pliskova -- the second seed competing on her least productive surface -- needed three sets to beat 97th-ranked Veronica Cepede Royg 2-6 6-3 6-4, with No. 28 seed Garcia comfortably getting past fellow Frenchwoman Alize Cornet 6-2 6-4.
The latter contest was billed as a grudge match after Garcia and Cornet said they were not on good terms, stemming from the former pulling out of 
(CNN)Food photography isn't a medium often associated with social commentary. For most of its practitioners, their modus operandi is capturing pizza cheese that pulls away perfectly, kebab meat that sizzles or frosted glasses of beer that scream "drink me."
Shining a light on the ills of society isn't usually part of the job spec. But for photographer Henry Hargreaves, it's a form that can do just that.
The New Zealand-born, Brooklyn-based former model is determined to use this medium for something more profound -- and something more disturbing. His approach had to be different from the start.
"I'm not a good cook," he explains, "which separates me from most other food photographers, who usually have a culinary background. I wasn't trying to make food look like you might want to eat it, so I was able to focus on telling the stories."
Read: How a 17-foot sculpture pushed Rachel Kneebone to her limits
Death, war and food
The stories he tells are generally bittersweet glimpses of the modern world told through the unlikely prism of food -- as seen in his acclaimed "No Seconds" series, which recreated the last meals of death row prisoners to chilling effect.
Hargreaves endowed these innocuous portions of fried chicken and mint chocolate chip ice cream with uncomfortable truths about capital punishment and mortality. The series subsequently won him acclaim and attention all over the world.
His new project "MRE to Michelin" again looks at the connection between food and state-sanctioned violence. This time, he's opened up the little-seen ration packs (generally known as MREs -- Meals Ready to Eat) of armed forces across the world, and transformed the ingredients into highly complicated haute cuisine, with the help of chef Chuck George and videographer Jimmy Pham.
The project is full of childlike creativity and subversive humor, taking aim at both the horrors of war and the pretentiousness of modern restaurant fare. A Lithuanian MRE full of plastic sachets and vacuum-sealed biscuits becomes "Mystery meat on crackers with chopped almonds and a drop of jam, black tea dust." The American version brings forth "Diced pear, energy bar with dry roasted nuts, peanut butter and chilli lime hot sauce,