(CNN)Simona Halep declared on the eve of the French Open that about "15 players" were the favorite but the way she has played at Roland Garros in the last week, the number has dwindled to one -- and it is the Romanian herself.
The 2014 finalist would have been the heavy favorite had she not sustained an ankle injury in the final of the Italian Open last month against Elina Svitolina -- a week after defending her crown at the Madrid Open. However, the third seed has brushed aside any fitness concerns by reaching the last eight without conceding a set.
READ: Halep ... and chocolate mousse
On Monday she crushed Carla Suarez Navarro -- the 21st-seeded Spaniard who had beaten Halep in their four previous clay duels -- 6-1 6-1 on a blustery day in Paris to set up a rematch with Svitolina, who rallied from 5-2 down in the third set to end the run of Croatian qualifier Petra Martic 4-6 6-3 7-5.
After Venus Williams and Svetlana Kuznetsova lost Sunday, the French Open -- which is missing
(CNN)Underneath its spiky exterior, the fruit is smooth, juicy and beautifully sweet.
The spikes of the lychee fruit -- also known as litchi -- may be a deterrent for some animals, but for humans willing to break it away, it's an exotic and tasty treat. And often, just one is not enough.
But if eaten too early, particularly by someone who missed their evening meal or by a child in a malnourished state, this seemingly sweet fruit can be toxic and sometimes fatal, as shown recently by a mystery illness that affected the town of Muzaffarpur in India -- the country's largest lychee-producing region.
Each year, hundreds of children in India alone may be hospitalized with fever, convulsions and seizures. A recent report revealed they are probably due to toxins from unripe lychees. Combined with low blood sugar or malnourishment, these toxins can result in even lower blood sugar, or hypoglycemia. They block the body's production of sugar, which becomes especially dangerous when we sleep and our blood sugar levels naturally fall.
This could lead to an encephalopathy, a change in brain functioning, said Dr. Padmini Srikantiah of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention office in India, who led the investigation in Muzaffarpur.
"Naturally occurring toxins in the lychee fruit are associated with toxicity that led to this encephalopathy," she said. "It's quite possible that when glucose metabolism is disrupted, you get buildup of other metabolites that could have some toxic affects as well." When the victim is young and malnourished, the impact is greater.
But lychees are not the only produce with the potential to poison us if eaten too early or unprocessed.
When ackee is an enemy
The unripe ackee contains the same poison as the lychee, known as hypoglycin, Srikantiah said.
The toxic nature of the ackee fruit is well-understood in Jamaica and West Africa, where the plant is grown. It's native to West Africa and was brought across the Atlantic Ocean during the slave trade.
As the national fruit -- and national symbol -- of Jamaica, it is a key part of the country's national meal: ackee and saltfish. But locals know not to go near an unripe or even uncooked fruit. It is eaten boiled and as a savory dish.
"It's well-known in Jamaica that if your child eats an unopened or unripened ackee fruit, you better get ready to take them to the hospital or give a spoon of sugar to increase glucose," Spencer said.
The most affected demographic is again children, he said, particularly malnourished ones, who are less able to restore the sugars blocked by toxins. He hypothesizes that this may "relate to body mass," meaning children "might require a smaller dose."
"A common theme you see is young children who don't know the unripe fruit can be harmful," Srikantiah said.
Be careful with cassava
Well-known in Africa, South America and parts of Asia, cassava is the third most important source of calories in these regions after maize and rice, according to the World Bank, feeding more than 600 million people globally each day.
Also known as yucca, it is a root vegetable that is delicious fried, boiled or baked, harnessing a gummy, starchy texture. It's also ground into a flour.
But the staple can be poisonous if not processed properly.
The plant naturally contains hydrogen cyanide, Spencer said, and is the subject of strict regulations regarding its processing and production to diminish concentrations of this poison.
"It feeds millions across the world," Spencer said. "But if you're very poor and don't have time to process it, then you come down with disease."
Processing involves a mix of fermentation, peeling, drying and cooking to detoxify the tubers. Eating the root raw or unprocessed means eating cyanide and metabolizing it, which in turn can affect thyroid hormones and damage nerve cells in the brain relating to movement, Spencer said. The tuber's toxins can also cause sudden, irreversible paralysis, according to the National Institutes of Health.
The neurological disorder causing paralysis is known as konzo and is prevalent in certain developing regions, including the Democratic Republic of Congo, where drought, famine and conflict can increase the likelihood of people eating the crop unprocessed.
Spencer fears that this problem may increase in other parts of Africa, Asia and Latin America as climates change and droughts increase.
Staying away from starfruit
This fruit originates in Asia and gets its name from its shape.
Starfruit contain toxins that pose signifcant risk to people with kidney disease.
It is used as a herbal remedy for a range of ailments in certain parts of the tropics, but if consumed by someone with kidney disease, it can be fatal.
Starfruit contain toxins that affect the brain and can cause neurological disorders, says the National Kidney Foundation in the US. These are processed and removed in people with healthy kidneys, but people with chronic kidney disease can't detoxify the fruit, leaving the toxins and the potential for serious harm or even death.
"(It's) a risk for anyone with renal disease," Spencer said. Recent studies have found a few cases in which people used it to treat other conditions, as a herbal remedy, and developed kidney disease or failure after excessive or prolonged consumption.
Symptoms of starfruit poisoning include hiccups, confusion and seizures.
Sugar cane's fatal fungus
The sugar cane crop itself is not harmful to eat, but leave it for too long, and its impact won't be very sweet.
Eating moldy or dated sugar cane comes with a risk of poisoning courtesy of a common fungus that grows on the plant when it's stored for more than a few months.
"If a child eats that fungus, it can cause death or lifelong neurological disease," Spencer said. The toxin is harmful to all ages, though children and young people are more commonly the victims.
The fungus, called artbrinium, produces toxins that can cause vomiting, staring to one side, convulsions, spasms and coma, according to the World Health Organization (PDF).